## U.S. Geological Survey Disclaimers

*Approved data*: Unless otherwise stated, all data, metadata and related
materials are considered to satisfy the quality standards relative to
the purpose for which the data were collected. Although these data and
associated metadata have been reviewed for accuracy and completeness and
approved for release by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), no warranty
expressed or implied is made regarding the display or utility of the
data for other purposes, nor on all computer systems, nor shall the act
of distribution constitute any such warranty.

*Approved database*: The database schema created by this software, has
been approved for release by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). Although
this database has been subjected to rigorous review and is substantially
complete, the USGS reserves the right to revise the schema pursuant to
further analysis and review. Furthermore, the database is released on
condition that neither the USGS nor the U.S. Government shall be held
liable for any damages resulting from its authorized or unauthorized
use.

*Approved software*: This software has been approved for release by the
U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). Although the software has been subjected
to rigorous review, the USGS reserves the right to update the software
as needed pursuant to further analysis and review. No warranty,
expressed or implied, is made by the USGS or the U.S. Government as to
the functionality of the software and related material nor shall the
fact of release constitute any such warranty. Furthermore, the software
is released on condition that neither the USGS nor the U.S. Government
shall be held liable for any damages resulting from its authorized or
unauthorized use.

*Processed data*: Although these data have been processed successfully
on a computer system at the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), no warranty
expressed or implied is made regarding the display or utility of the
data for other purposes, nor on all computer systems, nor shall the act
of distribution constitute any such warranty. The USGS or the U.S.
Government shall not be held liable for improper or incorrect use of the
data described and/or contained herein.

*Non-endorsement of commercial products and services*: Any use of trade,
firm, or product names is for descriptive purposes only and does not
imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.